Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?

Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing information in a computer so that it can be retrieved and used most productively.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
1) Traversing: Accessing each records exactly once so that certain items in the record may be processed.
(2) Searching: Finding the location of a particular record with a given key value, or finding the location of all records which satisfy one or more conditions.
(3) Inserting: Adding a new record to the structure.
(4) Deleting: Removing the record from the structure.
(5) Sorting: Managing the data or record in some logical order(Ascending or descending order).
(6) Merging: Combining the record in two different sorted files into a single sorted file


List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
? Compiler Design,

? Operating System,

? Database Management System,

? Statistical analysis package,

? Numerical Analysis,

? Graphics,

? Artificial Intelligence,

? Simulation

what is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed size data structure while ArrayList is not

what is LinkedList?
A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.

How is an Array different from Linked List?

In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location.

A linked list is a linear collection of data element in which linear order is not given by their physical placement in memory.




what is queue?
A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue

what is stack?
A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (a 'push' operation), and removed (a 'pop' operation).

what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in First Out and LIFO: Last in First Out

what is the order of complexity?
Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
The best case for a simple linear search on a list occurs when the desired element is the first element of the list.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
n the absolute worst case, the search must visit every element once.

what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data structures.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java stores both key and value object, in bucket, as an object of Entry class which implements this nested interface Map

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Thrown to indicate that an array has been accessed with an illegal index. The index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?

int[] src  = new int[]{1,2,3,4,5};
int[] dest = new int[5];

System.arraycopy( src, 0, dest, 0, src.length );

----------
int[] a = {1,2,3,4,5};
This is the way to go:

int[] b = Arrays.copyOf(a, a.length);

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
In?array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In?Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the?link?part of previous element/node

What is DFS and BFS?
The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear Data Structure: Those data structures where the data elements are organised in some sequence is called linear data structure.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Efficient sorts[edit] Practical general sorting algorithms are almost always based on an algorithm with average time complexity (and generally worst-case complexity) O(n log n), of which the most common are heap sort, merge sort, and quicksort.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
